---
category: Misc
path: '/parks'
title: 'Parks and open spaces'
---
## Parks and open spaces 0.1

**([Comments welcome!](https://github.com/okfnau/open-council-data/issues))**

Parks, open spaces, recreation areas with attributes describing whether facilities such as picnic areas, barbecues, toilets and dog-off-leash areas are present.

Councils are encouraged to also provide distinct datasets for public toilets, dog walking zones, footpaths, and street furniture with exact locations. See the relevant standards.

&rarr; <i>**[Find datasets tagged \[parks\] on data.gov.au](http://data.gov.au/dataset?sort=extras_harvest_portal+asc%2C+score+desc&q=&tags=parks)**</i>


#### General recommendations:

&nbsp;| Recommendation
------|------------
Format| GeoJSON in EPSG:4326
Dataset name| [Council name] Parks and open spaces.   [Or "Parks and" a term used by your council]
data.gov.au tags| `parks`, `opencouncildata`
Spatial type|Polygon and/or point. (A point dataset can be useful for non-GIS data users.) For large parks, it may be useful to split the park into smaller polygons to make the attributes more localised.


#### Required fields

Field | Description
------|------------
`name`  | Name of the park.

#### Recommended fields

Field | Description
------|-------------
`amenities`| Comma-separated list of keywords from this list: `bbq`, `picnic table`, `toilets`, `oval`, `dog off-leash`, `drink tap`, `parking`, `playground`. Invent new keywords if required - please provide feedback.
`description` | Free text description.
`url` | URL with more information.
`image` | URL of representative image.
`address` | Street address.
